kubectl plugin for supportconfig (#12074)
uyuni-project/uyuni: containers/mlm-supportconfig/README.md

# kubectl mlm-supportconfig

> A `kubectl` plugin that collects a complete support bundle for MLM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `kubectl` plugin that collects a complete support bundle for SUSE Multi-Linux Manager
```

workloads running on Kubernetes — works against
any pod deployed by `server-helm` or `proxy-helm`.

Two modes:

```bash
kubectl mlm-supportconfig <namespace>            # all pods in the namespace
kubectl mlm-supportconfig <pod> <namespace>      # just that one pod
```

For each selected pod the plugin collects, best-effort:

* `supportconfig` in every container of the pod that has the binary,
  invoked with `-t <dir>`. Multi-container pods produce
  one `supportconfig-<container>/` directory per container that has
  `supportutils` installed; containers without it are silently skipped;
* `kubectl logs --all-containers` with timestamps and per-container
  prefixes, both current and previous container instances;
* `kubectl describe pod` and `kubectl get pod -o yaml`.

Once per distinct node hosting any selected pod, it also runs the
Rancher logs-collector via `kubectl debug node/...` — this captures
node-level data (journald, container runtime logs, kernel info, network
config) that no pod-side collection can see.

> Once per namespace, it dumps:

Reviewer: How many namespaces do you expect? Do you mean we are looking at what other workloads could do too?

Author: actually just one, probably the comment is misleading

  Certificates (each best-effort: CRDs that aren't installed are
  silently skipped);
* a resource-usage snapshot — `kubectl top pod --containers` and
  `kubectl top node` (silently skipped if `metrics-server` isn't
  installed in the cluster);
* helm release state — `helm list`, then per release `helm get values`,
  `helm get manifest`, `helm history` (skipped entirely if `helm` is
  not on the workstation's `$PATH`).

Once per run, it also captures cluster baseline — `kubectl version`,
`kubectl get nodes -o wide`, the full node spec, and cluster-scoped
storage (`PersistentVolumes`, `StorageClasses`) so the bundle is
self-contained for the reviewer.

Everything ends up in a single tarball in the current directory, with
a top-level `SUMMARY.txt` describing what was collected and what was
skipped. The plugin never aborts on a collection failure — missing
permissions, missing binaries, timeouts, and `kubectl cp` failures are
all recorded in `SUMMARY.txt` and the next step runs. Exit code is `0`
whenever a bundle was produced.

## Prerequisites

On the workstation:

* `kubectl` on `$PATH`, configured for the target cluster.

> * `bash` 4 or newer.

Reviewer: Do you really need to precise the bash version?

Author: actually yes, because of `declare -A` https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11776468/create-associative-array-in-bash-3. but we can find another way for doing it

Reviewer: It depends: how likely are we to have systems with bash prior to that?

Reviewer 2: Bash 4 was released February 2009. I see that Apple systems had bash 3 to 2019.

See https://gunkies.org/wiki/Bash#Version_4

But server running rke2 needs to be much more modern and there is IMO virtually no chance to see Bash 3 there.

Author: yep indeed, some apple systems might still have bash3. But it should be really unlikely, I'll keep just `bash`

In the target cluster, the caller's kubeconfig should have:

* `get` / `list` on `pods` and read access to the target namespace;
* `get` / `list` on `events` in the target namespace;
* `create` / `delete` on `pods` and access to `nodes/proxy`
  (`kubectl debug node/...`);
* `create` on `pods/exec` in the target namespace;
* the cluster should allow privileged pods on the target nodes for the
  Rancher step to succeed (default on K3s/RKE2; on restricted clusters
  a `PodSecurity` policy may block it — that step then records
  `SKIPPED` and the rest of the bundle is still produced).

Any missing permission only affects the steps that need it.

## Installation

A `kubectl` plugin is just an executable on `$PATH` whose name starts
with `kubectl-`. The underscore in the filename becomes a hyphen in
the invocation.

```bash
# system-wide
sudo install -m 0755 kubectl-mlm_supportconfig /usr/local/bin/

# or per-user, assuming ~/bin is on your PATH
install -m 0755 kubectl-mlm_supportconfig ~/bin/

# verify
kubectl plugin list | grep mlm-supportconfig

> ```

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this also provide a link or from where to install it?

Author: added it

## Usage

```bash
kubectl mlm-supportconfig <namespace>            # all pods in the namespace
kubectl mlm-supportconfig <pod> <namespace>      # one specific pod
```

The first argument that you'd otherwise need to look up:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n <namespace>
```

A bundle lands in the current directory, named:

* `mlm-supportconfig-<namespace>-<pod>-<timestamp>.tar.gz` in single-pod mode
* `mlm-supportconfig-<namespace>-all-<timestamp>.tar.gz` in whole-namespace mode

The terminal output ends with a `Summary:` block listing every step and
its outcome (`OK` / `SKIPPED` / `FAILED` / `TIMEOUT` / `PARTIAL`); the
same content is shipped as `SUMMARY.txt` inside the tarball.

> ### Air-gapped clusters

Reviewer: Shouldn't we add a link to the Rancher support TID and script in case the debug way doesn't work?
